Add SnippetsFilter guide (#2721)
nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric: site/content/how-to/traffic-management/snippets-filters.md

---
title: "Snippets Filters"
weight: 800
toc: true
docs: "DOCS-000"
---

> Learn how to use Snippets with the `SnippetsFilter` API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This topic introduces Snippets and how to implement them using the `SnippetsFilter` API. It provides an example of how to use a Snippet for rate limiting, and how to investigate errors caused by misconfiguration.
```

## Overview

> Snippets allow Cluster Operators to insert NGINX configuration into different contexts of the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Snippets allow users to insert NGINX configuration into different contexts of the
```

Cluster operators create them, application developers use them. Probably best to keep it generic here.

> Snippets allow Cluster Operators to insert NGINX configuration into different contexts of the

Reviewer 2: I think we need to be clear calling them SnippetsFilters, not just Snippets. And also make it clear that these attach to an HTTPRoute rule and apply to that rule specifically.

Author: > I think we need to be clear calling them SnippetsFilters, not just Snippets.

I followed Ingress controller's precedence here: https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-ingress-controller/configuration/ingress-resources/advanced-configuration-with-snippets/

And think that its good to stick with Snippets because it seems like that's already an established NGINX term? At least with the NIC crowd it will strike a familiar bell if we stick with saying Snippets are configured through SnippetsFilters.

> And also make it clear that these attach to an HTTP/GRPCRoute rule and apply to that rule specifically. 

Though, if a SF sets things in the `main`, `http`, or `http.server` contexts, then the SF doesn't apply to that rule specifically right? I was a little confused on this behavior as well.

Reviewer 2: Fair; after re-reading, I think it makes sense to talk about the general idea of snippets, but then describe specifically what a SnippetsFilter is (because in the future we may also have SnippetsPolicy). I'd also rename the doc to `snippets.md`.

> Though, if a SF sets things in the main, http, or http.server contexts, then the SF doesn't apply to that rule specifically right? I was a little confused on this behavior as well.

True, but I think we should make it clear what the intention is. Maybe it can be phrased better. If someone puts something in main, it really should be because it's required for a configuration for a rule. Technically a user could put anything in there, but that's not what it's for.

Author: I've added some information on this, please let me know if what I have is correct and/or if there is more stuff I should add.

NGINX configurations that NGINX Gateway Fabric generates.

Snippets are for advanced NGINX users who need more control over the generated NGINX configuration,

> and can be used in cases where Gateway API resources or NGINX extensions don't apply.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and can be used in cases where Gateway API resources or NGINX extension policies don't apply.
```

> ## Disadvantages of Snippets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---

## Disadvantages of Snippets
```

Snippets are configured using the `SnippetsFilter` API, but are disabled by default due to their complexity and security implications.

> To use Snippets, set the `nginxGateway.snippetsFilters.enable` command line argument to true.

Reviewer 2: This is just for helm users, and is a helm value, not a CLI flag. Manifest users will have to supply the proper CLI flag.

Snippets have the following disadvantages:

- *Complexity*. Snippets require you to:
  - Understand NGINX Configuration primitives and implement a correct NGINX configuration.

>   - Understand how NGINX Gateway Fabric generates NGINX configuration so that a Snippet doesn’t interfere with the other features in the configuration.

Author: Should this be explained anywhere? That if an NGINX directive inserted through a snippet already exists, it'll break?

> - *Decreased robustness*. An incorrect Snippet can invalidate NGINX configuration, causing reload failures. Until the snippet is fixed, it will prevent any new configuration updates, including updates for the other Gateway resources.
> - *Security implications*. Snippets give access to NGINX configuration primitives, which are not validated by NGINX Gateway Fabric. For example, a Snippet can configure NGINX to serve the TLS certificates and keys used for TLS termination for Gateway resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- _Decreased robustness_: An incorrect Snippet can invalidate NGINX configuration, causing reload failures. Until the snippet is fixed, it will prevent any new configuration updates, including updates for the other Gateway resources.
- _Security implications_: Snippets give access to NGINX configuration primitives, which are not validated by NGINX Gateway Fabric. For example, a Snippet can configure NGINX to serve the TLS certificates and keys used for TLS termination for Gateway resources.
```

{{< note >}} If the NGINX configuration includes an invalid Snippet, NGINX will continue to operate with the last valid configuration. {{< /note >}}

Due to the described disadvantages of Snippets, we recommend exhausting all other means of NGINX configuration through Gateway API resources,

> [first-class policies]({{< relref "overview/custom-policies.md" >}}), and other NGINX extensions before using Snippets.

Author: I don't like the way I implemented the AC of 

> A recommendation at the top of the guide that guides users to use our first-class policies before using snippets.

However, I can't think of anything different, I'm open to suggestions.

Reviewer: I'd shift this paragraph up to the start, and maybe lead with the first class policies.

"We recommend managing NGINX configuration through Gateway API resources, first class policies and other NGINX extensions before using Snippets".

You could even wrap it in a warning note if we're really trying to encourage them to use other methods.

Author: I moved it, is it in the right spot?

Reviewer: Yep, perfect!

{{< note >}} If you end up using Snippets and run into situations where an NGINX directive fails to be applied, please create an issue in the
[NGINX Gateway Fabric Github repository](https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric). {{< /note >}}

## Setup

- [Install]({{< relref "/installation/" >}}) NGINX Gateway Fabric.
- Save the public IP address and port of NGINX Gateway Fabric into shell variables:

   ```text
  GW_IP=XXX.YYY.ZZZ.III
  GW_PORT=<port number>
  ```

>   {{< note >}}In a production environment, you should have a DNS record for the external IP address that is exposed, and it should refer to the hostname that the gateway will forward for.{{< /note >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  {{< note >}} In a production environment, you should have a DNS record for the external IP address that is exposed, and it should refer to the hostname that the gateway will forward for. {{< /note >}}
```

- Create the coffee and tea example applications:

  ```yaml
  kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/v1.4.0/examples/snippets-filter/app.yaml
  ```

- Create a Gateway:

  ```yaml
  kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/v1.4.0/examples/snippets-filter/gateway.yaml
   ```

- Create HTTPRoutes for the coffee and tea applications:

  ```yaml
  kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/v1.4.0/examples/snippets-filter/httproutes.yaml
   ```

> - Test the configuration:

Reviewer 2: I don't think the flow of the doc should be "deploy half the config, see that it doesn't work, now apply the other half".

We should focus on the happy path of deploying all of the necessary items to achieve a goal with snippets filters. At the end, we can talk about common errors (such as filter not being attached, what the result might be, and how to fix it).

Author: I didn't plan for it to be this way. I actually thought that an HTTPRoute that references a SnippetsFilter that doesn't exist would work normally, just without the SnippetsFilter settings. 

But it was only when I actually tested it out that I realized it error'd and I had to look into the SnippetsFilter proposal to figure out why. It's not specified anywhere, NGF doesn't error, and the SF itself has no errors, the only way to see the error is through describing the HTTPRoute. So I figured that if I had this issue, others would too, and it would be beneficial to highlight this important implementation feature. This guide intentionally breaks the norm to our guides setup phase.

I was also struggling to figure out a way to show the difference before and after snippetsfilters were applied. I could have them apply an HTTPRoute that doesn't reference the snippetsFilters, show traffic works, then apply a new HTTPRoute that references the SF and apply the SF, but that felt excessive. 

Open to change it though if you feel strongly that it should be changed.

@ADubhlaoich do you have any thoughts?

Reviewer: I agree with @sjberman that starting the reader in a partially functional state feels very odd.

One thing that stuck out to me on a second pass is that the document goes from enabling Snippets immediately into an example for testing them.

I might be wrong, but from a quick look I can't actually find any other documentation on rate limiting in NGF, so we warn people that Snippets should be their last resort but don't provide any explanation how to do so with the suggest methods.

The caveat you mentioned about both NGF and the SnippetsFilter not erroring feels like a bug: it might warrant a warning somewhere, but, it feels odd to provide guidance around a design problem.

With this in mind, I'd probably try to give users a complete, functional example without the "see that it's broken step".

Here's my suggestion for an alternative page layout:

```
## Overview
## Disadvantages of Snippets
## Enable SnippersFilter
(This would essentially be the top of the "set-up" section now)
## Create an example application
(Include everything here needed to simply have a functional example. Nothing involving rate limiting yet: add two targets)
### Add rate limiting using <> (Whatever the simplest solution is)
(Add rate limiting to one target using a "regular" resource")
### Add rate limiting using SnippetsFilter
(Add rate limiting to one target using a SnippetsFilter)
### Test the rate limit
(Testing both targets the same way)
## Conclusions
## See also
```

Add describes at the end of each of the "Add rate limiting" sections so the reader can verify the changes they've made.

We give the non-Snippets solution first so the reader can see how to add rate limiting in a... Gateway "native" way, before presenting them with the Snippets solution we've already advised them away from.

Author: Correct me if I'm wrong @sjberman, but rate limiting is not a feature accessible through other means. So there are no other alternatives. 

SnippetsFilters give the users access to so much and so many NGINX features that currently aren't accessible which is such an upside. But we say it should be their last resort because it requires such extensible NGINX knowledge which the whole point of NGF is configure through other stuff so the user doesn't really need to touch NGINX conf.

Reviewer: If that's the case, then "Add rate limiting using Snippets" could be its own how-to document: some alternative functionality could be chosen for this particular guide to narrow the focus onto something simpler.

I'm just throwing some ideas at the wall: I do stand by my prior suggestion of splitting the document into sections with one specific focus at a time.

Author: @ADubhlaoich made some changes. Removed the troubleshooting part, had the user deploy just a regular HTTPRoute without mention of SnippetsFilters, then later they apply the SnippetsFilter and modify the HTTPRoute. 

>If that's the case, then "Add rate limiting using Snippets" could be its own how-to document: some alternative functionality could be chosen for this particular guide to narrow the focus onto something simpler.

I think rate limiting is a simple feature which showcases Snippets in a good way. Since there are so many features SnippetsFilters opens up, we're not targeting and showcasing rate limiting as if we were to do that, we would also need to create docs for the other endless possibilities.

I based my document off of https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-gateway-fabric/how-to/traffic-management/client-settings where it just showcases a feature now enabled through the clientsettingspolicy, and doesn't really include any alternative method comparison.

I'm pushing back a little on your recommendations but I would like to hear your thoughts on the current changes.

Reviewer: Current changes seem great - and keeping the scope of the PR to the original example is for the best.

  You can send traffic to the coffee and tea applications using the external IP address and port for NGINX Gateway Fabric.

  Send a request to coffee:

  ```shell
  curl --resolve cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT:$GW_IP http://cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT/coffee
  ```

>   Send a request to tea

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Send a request to tea:
```

  ```shell
  curl --resolve cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT:$GW_IP http://cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT/tea
  ```

  Both requests should receive this response from the backend Pod:

  ```text
  <html>
  <head><title>500 Internal Server Error</title></head>
  <body>
  <center><h1>500 Internal Server Error</h1></center>
  <hr><center>nginx</center>
  </body>
  </html>
  ```

>   Lets check out our HTTPRoutes to see what's causing this error:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Use `kubectl describe` to investigate HTTPRoutes for the error:
```

      Observed Generation:   1
      Reason:                Accepted
      Status:                True
      Type:                  Accepted
      Last Transition Time:  2024-10-22T23:43:11Z
      Message:               spec.rules[0].filters[0].extensionRef: Not found: v1.LocalObjectReference{Group:"gateway.nginx.org", Kind:"SnippetsFilter", Name:"coffee-rate-limiting-sf"}
      Observed Generation:   1
      Reason:                InvalidFilter
      Status:                False
      Type:                  ResolvedRefs
  .
  .
  .
   Conditions:
      Last Transition Time:  2024-10-22T23:43:14Z
      Message:               The route is accepted
      Observed Generation:   1
      Reason:                Accepted
      Status:                True
      Type:                  Accepted
      Last Transition Time:  2024-10-22T23:43:14Z
      Message:               spec.rules[0].filters[0].extensionRef: Not found: v1.LocalObjectReference{Group:"gateway.nginx.org", Kind:"SnippetsFilter", Name:"tea-rate-limiting-sf"}
      Observed Generation:   1
      Reason:                InvalidFilter
      Status:                False
      Type:                  ResolvedRefs
  ```

>   This is because in the HTTPRoutes we created earlier, they both reference `SnippetsFilter` resources that do not currently

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 The HTTPRoutes created earlier both reference `SnippetsFilter` resources that do not currently
```

>   exist, and thus a 500 error code response will be returned on requests that are processed by these HTTPRoutes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  exist, creating a 500 error code response returned on requests that are processed by these HTTPRoutes.
```

>   We will solve this in the next section when we add SnippetsFilters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This issue will be resolved using SnippetsFilters.
```

> ## Configure rate limiting to the coffee application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---

## Configure rate limiting to the coffee application
```

> Lets configure rate limiting to our coffee application by adding the following `SnippetsFilter`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure rate limiting to the coffee application by adding the following `SnippetsFilter`:
```

```yaml
kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: gateway.nginx.org/v1alpha1
kind: SnippetsFilter
metadata:
  name: coffee-rate-limiting-sf
spec:
  snippets:
    - context: http
      value: limit_req_zone $binary_remote_addr zone=coffeezone:10m rate=1r/s;
    - context: http.server.location
      value: limit_req zone=coffeezone burst=3 nodelay;
EOF
```

> This `SnippetsFilter` is already referenced by the HTTPRoute we created in the setup, so it will immediately apply

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This `SnippetsFilter` is already referenced by the HTTPRoute created during setup, so it will immediately apply
```

You should see the following status:

```text
Status:
  Controllers:
    Conditions:
      Last Transition Time:  2024-10-21T22:20:22Z
      Message:               SnippetsFilter is accepted
      Observed Generation:   1
      Reason:                Accepted
      Status:                True
      Type:                  Accepted
    Controller Name:         gateway.nginx.org/nginx-gateway-controller
Events:                      <none>
```

Verify that the coffee `HTTPRoute` which had an `InvalidFilter` condition earlier, no longer has that condition.

```shell
kubectl describe httproutes.gateway.networking.k8s.io coffee
```

You should see the following conditions:

```text
Conditions:
      Last Transition Time:  2024-10-23T00:33:08Z
      Message:               The route is accepted
      Observed Generation:   2
      Reason:                Accepted
      Status:                True
      Type:                  Accepted
      Last Transition Time:  2024-10-23T00:33:08Z
      Message:               All references are resolved
      Observed Generation:   2
      Reason:                ResolvedRefs
      Status:                True
      Type:                  ResolvedRefs
```

> Next, test that the `SnippetsFilter` is configured and has successfully applied the rate limiting NGINX configuration changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Test that `SnippetsFilter` is configured and has successfully applied the rate limiting NGINX configuration changes.
```

Send a request to coffee:

```shell
curl --resolve cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT:$GW_IP http://cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT/coffee
```

This request should receive a response from the coffee Pod:

```text
Server address: 10.244.0.9:8080
Server name: coffee-76c7c85bbd-cf8nz
```

> When processing a single request, the rate limiting configuration has no noticeable effect. Now lets try to exceed the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When processing a single request, the rate limiting configuration has no noticeable effect. Try to exceed the
```

> set rate limit by using a simple script to send multiple requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
set rate limit with a script that sends multiple requests.
```

```shell
for i in `seq 1 10`; do curl --resolve cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT:$GW_IP http://cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT/coffee; done
```

> You should see some successful responses from the coffee Pod, however you should see multiple responses like the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should see some successful responses from the coffee Pod, however there should be multiple `503` responses such as:
```

```text
Request ID: 890c17df930ef1ef573feed3c6e81290
<html>
<head><title>503 Service Temporarily Unavailable</title></head>
<body>
<center><h1>503 Service Temporarily Unavailable</h1></center>
<hr><center>nginx</center>
</body>
</html>
```

This is the default error response given by NGINX when the rate limit burst is exceeded, meaning our `SnippetsFilter`
correctly applied our rate limiting NGINX configuration changes.

## Configure rate limiting to the tea application

> Now, lets configure a different set of rate limiting rules to our tea application by adding the following `SnippetsFilter`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure a different set of rate limiting rules to the tea application by adding the following `SnippetsFilter`:
```

```

You should see the following status:

```text
Status:
  Controllers:
    Conditions:
      Last Transition Time:  2024-10-21T22:20:24Z
      Message:               SnippetsFilter is accepted
      Observed Generation:   1
      Reason:                Accepted
      Status:                True
      Type:                  Accepted
    Controller Name:         gateway.nginx.org/nginx-gateway-controller
Events:                      <none>
```

Verify that the tea `HTTPRoute` which had an `InvalidFilter` condition earlier, no longer has that condition.

```shell
kubectl describe httproutes.gateway.networking.k8s.io tea
```

You should see the following conditions:

```text
Conditions:
      Last Transition Time:  2024-10-23T00:33:08Z
      Message:               The route is accepted
      Observed Generation:   2
      Reason:                Accepted
      Status:                True
      Type:                  Accepted
      Last Transition Time:  2024-10-23T00:33:08Z
      Message:               All references are resolved
      Observed Generation:   2
      Reason:                ResolvedRefs
      Status:                True
      Type:                  ResolvedRefs
```

> Next, test that the `SnippetsFilter` is configured and has successfully applied the rate limiting NGINX configuration changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Test that `SnippetsFilter` is configured and has successfully applied the rate limiting NGINX configuration changes.
```

Author: I'll leave `the` in place as I think thats correct since its an object and not a name.

Send a request to tea:

```shell
curl --resolve cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT:$GW_IP http://cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT/tea
```

This request should receive a response from the tea Pod:

```text
Server address: 10.244.0.7:8080
Server name: tea-76c7c85bbd-cf8nz
```

> When processing a single request, the rate limiting configuration has no noticeable effect. Now, lets try sending

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When processing a single request, the rate limiting configuration has no noticeable effect. Try sending
```

multiple requests.

```shell
for i in `seq 1 10`; do curl --resolve cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT:$GW_IP http://cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT/tea; done
```

You should see all successful responses from the tea Pod, but they should be spaced apart roughly one second each as

> expected through our rate limiting configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
expected through the rate limiting configuration.
```

> 

Author: Should I add some sort of conclusion statement at the end? It seems like an abrupt end.

Reviewer: You can summarize what the instructions have shown: it might be a good opportunity to link to another document which shows an alternative, recommend method for doing this.

Author: Added a statement, let me know of your thoughts!

Reviewer: LGTM!

> ## Further reading

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---

## Further reading
```

---
title: "Use the SnippetsFilter API"
weight: 800
toc: true
docs: "DOCS-000"
---

This topic introduces Snippets and how to implement them using the `SnippetsFilter` API. It provides an example of how to use a Snippet for rate limiting, and how to investigate errors caused by misconfiguration.

---

## Overview

Snippets allow users to insert NGINX configuration into different contexts of the
NGINX configurations that NGINX Gateway Fabric generates.

Snippets are for advanced NGINX users who need more control over the generated NGINX configuration,
and can be used in cases where Gateway API resources or NGINX extensions policies don't apply.

---

## Disadvantages of Snippets

> {{< warning >}} We recommend managing NGINX configuration through Gateway API resources, [first-class policies]({{< relref "overview/custom-policies.md" >}}), and other existing NGINX extensions

Author: @sjberman is "other existing NGINX extensions" even correct? What would those be, I'm not sure. Are the main ways just Gateway API resources and custom policies?

Reviewer 2: Yeah, our extensions are in the form of policies, so you're right.

Reviewer 2: Thought we have the NginxProxy resource, which isn't technically a policy. And I don't believe is in the policy doc.

Author: Is there any resource I can link to for the "Other existing NGINX extensions" because even I don't really know what that's referencing specifically.

Reviewer 2: I guess you could link to the data plane configuration page for global settings.
